the eggs of trout grayling and salmon
require a constant supply of cool
oxygen-rich water in order to survive
hatching is a grueling process as you
can see from the rapidly beating heart
of this young fish the young trout spend
many months in the gaps between gravel
groans even after they've hatched out
from their egg it's only when the yolk
sac has been completely absorbed that
they swim up into open water in summer
this is a dense clump of himalayan
balsam when japanese knotweed now in
winter the invasive plants have died
back to leave bare earth rain that falls
on this loose soil quickly turns into
fine mud and then streams down river
banks
before being washed into the river
itself after the flood waters pass away
the mud settles on the stream bed when
too much mud washes in from eroding
banks it can bury spawning gravels when
we realize this the suffocating effect
on eggs and young fish is all too
obvious strangely we anglers don't often
get upset by large clumps of invasive
plant species yet we're up in arms if we
discover poach is killing trout from our
rivers perhaps it is because netting and
killing fish to eat is much easier to
visualize than a slow invisible
suffocation beneath the riverbed
you